The PhosphorJS Project
======================

What?
-----

PhosphorJS is a collection of libraries designed to make it easy to build
high-performance, pluggable, desktop-style web applications. It **is not**
an opinionated framework which forces a developer into a specific model of
data flow, nor does it artificially limit the developer to using only the
facilities provided by its own libraries. PhosphorJS was designed from the
start to play nicely with existing and popular web frameworks.

The PhosphorJS libraries cover topics including (but not limited to): message
passing, signaling, attached properties, data structures, widgets, and layouts.
Each of the libraries is a separately installable NPM package. Developers are
free to use as much or as little of PhosphorJS as suits their needs.

Most users will be drawn to PhosphorJS for its high performance layouts and
well structured widget hierarchy. These features allow a developer to build
desktop-like experiences which are not possible using CSS alone, and which
are not within the purview of most of today's web frameworks.

PhosphorJS is written entirely in [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org),
and is simple and easy to use from ES5, ES6 and TypeScript.


Why?
----

The web is built on technology that is sub-optimal for modern desktop-style UI
applications. Nevertheless, the web stack is rapidly becoming *the* deployment
platform for new applications, desktop or otherwise. Several frameworks have
appeared which attempt to address the shortcomings using various techniques.
Unfortunately, these frameworks often come with an opinionated view of how
data should flow through an application and/or a rigid model of how a widget
hierarchy should be assembled. In addition to being limiting, most of these
frameworks do not leverage the concepts of desktop toolkits which have been
proven (over several decades) to be highly useful.

HTML and CSS were designed for documents, not applications. There are certain
classes of user interactions which are expected of production-quality desktop
applications which are impossible to implement in CSS alone. Think of tabbed
and docked panels in an IDE application. These types of interactions must be
implemented using JavaScript, and implementing them in a scalable and elegant
fashion requires a reasonable amount of architecture. This includes facilities
such as: a message-passing hierarchy, resize/attach/detach/show/hide events,
size constraint aggregation, and efficient layout computation. PhosphorJS
provides these low-level facilities that are currently missing from the web,
in a way which is flexible, unopinionated, and compatible with existing code.

**Speed Matters.** In response to a user interaction, an application has ~16ms
to perform all necessary logic calculations, DOM manipulations, reflows, and
repaints, in order to maintain a 60fps refresh rate. This is easy to do for
one-off small applications, but becomes very difficult for large, multi-tab,
single-page, dense applications. PhosphorJS helps with this. It's widgets and
layouts are designed to be efficient: minimizing reflows whenever possible and
consistently achieving sub-millisecond layout times. It leaves as much of the
time-slice as possible to be used for the execution of business logic.


How?
----

- PhosphorJS provides a simple and flexible Widget class which establishes a
  hierarchy for message passing and DOM node manipulation. This enables the
  propagation of various messages throughout the hierarchy, such as: resize,
  attach, detach, show, and hide (among many others).

- Once establishing resize messages which propagate reliably, it becomes
  possible to implement layouts in JavaScript which would be impossible to
  achieve with CSS alone. By explicitly specifying the position and size of
  a node in absolute terms, the browser is able to optimize reflows so that
  they are contained within the affected portion of the page. This means that
  changes to one part of the application do not incur the cost of a reflow of
  the entire page.

- PhosphorJS recognizes that CSS is good at lots of things, and does not
  prevent the developer from using it when appropriate. PhosphorJS layouts
  play nicely with standard CSS layouts, and the two can be freely mixed
  within a widget hierarchy.

- PhosphorJS recognizes that developers have favorite frameworks that are well
  suited to a particular task. A Phosphor Widget instance can play host to DOM
  content generated by any other framework, and such a widget can be freely
  embedded within any Phosphor widget hierarchy.

- PhosphorJS provides a host of predefined widgets and layouts which are hard
  to implement correctly and efficiently, such as: menus and menu bars, split
  panels, and tabbed and docked panels. These make it simple to create the
  rich desktop-style applications described previously.


Can I use it now?
-----------------

PhosphorJS is under development at the moment. Many of the libraries listed
in the sidebar have already reached 1.0, and others (several unlisted) are in
the process of being released.
